Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to speak about the if then else statement.
So we're going to kick our game a notch higher and add an else clause to the if statement
on the else clause basically marks the start of another set of code that is executed in
case the condition is not true,
in case that the condition is false than the other set of code gets executed.
So basically,
the structure off the if then else statement is that if condition is equal to true than
execute code one So this is the first set of code that is going to be executed in case that
a condition is equal to two.
And of course,
this goat could be several lines of code.
Basically,
it shouldn't be just one line.
And if the condition is fools,
it's actually going to go straight away without any testing without any verification and
just execute code to face of the condition is false.
Co two will be executed,
no questions asked.
And then we've got our end.
If that marks the end of the if statement.
Okay,
so now we're gonna have an example for the if then else statement.
So actually gonna have the same example here as the one that we've had on the If statement
is just that we've added some code to be executed in case of the else clause.
So in case that this condition is false,
which is active cell that values greater than or equal to sail Stargate in case that is
false,
what's after?
The else clause will be executed and it will be executed straightaway without any kind of
verification.
We're not gonna tested condition or anything.
It's just gonna be executed,
no questions asked.
So I've got here the sales amount for Jennifer,
for example,
selected.
And now if I try to step through the code step by stuck by pressing F eight on my keyboard
because here that when we test the condition,
actually Jennifer has achieved the target,
and the code that it gets executed is the one that is associated with the condition being
true.
Now if we take Jack,
for example,
who has not achieved the target and try to run the macro for Jack because here,
when we test the condition,
Active said that values greater than equal to sail started,
He's gonna be fulls,
so it's gonna go to the L straight away.
It won't us conditions or anything.
You will just straight away go execute the other message boxes,
says Jack has not achieved the target.
So that's basically it for the F.
Then else statement,
you add an else clause.
This else clause will have some code,
and this code will be executed straight away.
If your condition is false,
it will be executed without any kind of testing.
It'll be just executed straight away.
So that's it,
guys,
for the if then else statement on the upcoming videos,
we're going to expand more on the if statement.
Thank you very much for watching this video on.
I'll see on the next one.